Skip to main content
West Virginia University
LANE DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
Benjamin M. Statler College of Engineering and Mineral Resources
Toggle Search
Versatile fields of the future
From artificial intelligence to electrical engineering and cybersecurity the Lane Department of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering offers 11 unique programs to prepare students for a multitude of career opportunities. Take charge of your future with a degree from our department.



Computer science and electrical  Engineering
Computer science and electrical engineering is an exciting and dynamic field focusing on all matters related to the creation, processing, distribution, and use of information, technology and electricity. Emerging as a leader in the area of digital health, and its application of artificial intelligence to health care our faculty are making lives better for the citizens of West Virginia and beyond.

WHY CHOOSE COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING AT WVU?
WVU’s Lane Department of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering offers five undergraduate and six graduate programs in cybersecurity, biometrics systems engineering, computer science, computer engineering, electrical engineering, and software engineering with the flexibility to choose majors and minors. We are one of the few schools offering biometrics and cybersecurity in the same engineering program, and we are the DHS/NSA designated National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education (CAE-CDE) and Cyber Research (CAE-R). These quality programs prepare students for high-demand jobs and make a difference towards cyber secure and resilient infrastructure, clean energy, national defense, and customized healthcare through hands-on and state-of-the-art learning experience.

Our high-quality research activities and industry partnership in big data and visualization, AI, ML, biometrics, computer vision, cyber security and computer forensics, software engineering, communications and sensor networks, power and energy systems, nanotechnology/electronics, theoretical computer science, radio and astronomy, and healthcare, results in course offerings with most updated contents and trains students for societal impacts.

Our Mission
The mission of the Lane Department of CSEE is to harbor a nurturing learning environment for students as well as provide a high-quality education through academic programs with both practical and theoretical backgrounds, hands-on research experience and membership into relevant professional societies.

Employment outlook
Computer science and electrical engineering graduates are highly sought after by all sectors, including government and industry within the north West Virginia high-tech corridor and outside of West Virginia in places like Silicon Valley. Those pursuing graduate studies have been accepted into top-ranked graduate programs throughout the country.

Did You Know?
1st

LCSEE works in collaboration with Mechanical, Materials and Aerospace Engineering department to offer the first-of-its-kind degree in Robotics Engineering.

11

LCSEE alone offers a total of 11 academic programs.


LCSEE Learning Center offers individualized peer-based tutoring to ensure student success at the sophomore level and beyond.

Morgan Fetty and WV National Guard work together for Operation Locked Shield
Students in LCSEE are given the opportunity to participate in an International, multi-agency cyber competition, Locked Shield. This out-of-classroom exercise enables students to use the skills they've learned in everything from engineering to cybersecurity, media and law in one of the most complex, technical, live-fire challenges in the world.

The biometric systems lab performs data collections involving the collection of biometric information from paid volunteers every year.

Meet Raymond Lane
Raymond Lane, a man from working-class roots in Moon Township, Pennsylvania, became a Silicon Valley icon but he never forgot his alma mater – WVU. Lane graduated from Moon High School, located near Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. After receiving a mathematics degree in 1968 from WVU, Lane took off for what was then an uncharted frontier.
In The News
WVU robotics team stands in front of RoboCup 2025 sign in Salvador Brazil with robot in foreground and members holding navy WVU Let's Go flag
WVU Robotics places fourth in debut appearance at international competition
Students working in lab stand over computer screen with wires and controllers on table around them
WVU BOG approves new program offerings in artificial intelligence, smart systems
Statler College Circuit - Department Digest and Awards
June 2025: Statler Circuit Department Digest and Awards
Group of WVU Team Mountaineers stands smiling and posing for a photo in the desert in Hank, Utah after winning second place in the 2024 University Rover Challenge competition
WVU team secures second place in out-of-this-world international robotics competition
Calendar
Oct
14
06:00 PM - 07:30 PM
Mining Engineering Info Session with Vulcan Materials
 Oct
15
02:30 PM - 03:20 PM
Fall 2025 Physics and Astronomy Colloquium Series
 Oct
16
06:00 PM - 07:30 PM
Mining Engineering Spotlight Session featuring National Lime & Stone, Allegheny Metallurgical, and Oak Grove Met
 Oct
17
01:30 PM - 03:00 PM
REACT Fusion Journal Club
 Oct
17
05:00 PM - 05:00 PM
Transportation to the FBI CJIS Collegiate Academy Event
 Oct
19
12:00 AM - 11:59 PM
Graduate Student Scholarship Applications
[ view more events ]

Quicklinks
Undergraduate Admission Requirements
Undergraduate Catalog
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Catalog
LCSEE Helpdesk
Biometric Systems Engineering Program Accreditation and Assessment
Computer Engineering Program Accreditation and Assessment
Computer Science Program Accreditation and Assessment
Cybersecurity Program Accreditation and Assessment
Electrical Engineering Program Accreditation and Assessment
Employment and Assistantship
Lane Department of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering
1220 Evansdale Drive | PO Box 6109
Morgantown, West Virginia 26506-6109
Phone:  304-293-5263 | Fax:  304-293-8602

Benjamin M. Statler College of Engineering and Mineral Resources
1374 Evansdale Drive | PO Box 6070
Morgantown, West Virginia 26506-6070

Phone:  304.293.4821 |  Email:  statler-info@mail.wvu.edu

 Driving Directions

Connect With Us
Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube
Accreditations
 
Web Standards
 
Privacy Notice
 
Questions or Comments?
© 2025 West Virginia University. Last updated on March 20, 2025.

A-Z Site Index
 
Campus Map
 
WVU Careers
 
WVU Directory
Give
 
Handshake
 
WVU Safety Notification System
 
WVU Today
 
WVU Portal
WVU on Facebook
 
WVU on Twitter
 
WVU on YouTube