Skip to main content
West Virginia University
LANE DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
Benjamin M. Statler College of Engineering and Mineral Resources
Toggle Search
Lane Department of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering Student Life
Student Life
Student Organizations
AI Club
Artificial Intelligence can be a very daunting subject. At a glance, it seems confusing and unapproachable, but in reality, this does not have to be the case. AIWVU strives to bring technical AI knowledge to everyone that wants to learn, regardless of experience. We host biweekly discussions and workshops to make AI more accessible to anyone that wants to learn.

Association for Computing Machinery
Founded in 1947, the Association for Computing Machinery was the world's first educational and scientific computing society, and remains the premier professional society for computer scientists. Today, ACM has over 80,000 members worldwide. ACM conferences and publications provide CS students and professionals with access to the latest information in fields ranging from algorithms to databases to parallel processing.

The WVU student chapter of ACM serves our computer science students by hosting expert speakers from industry and the university, and by providing a opportunity for CS students to meet and socialize.

CyberWVU
CyberWVU is a student run organization and enthusiast group centered around Cyber Security and Free and Open Source Software(FOSS). We compete in multiple competitions throughout the year, as well as host speakers, competition simulations, volunteer tutoring hours, Open Source volunteer events, and security training sessions. No experience is needed to join the club. However, it is not too hard to learn on your own as well! Check out our resources page to try to hone your skills for the Cyber Team.

Eta Kappa Nu
HKN is a national honorary society for electrical and computer engineers. Members are selected for outstanding academic achievement and character. New members are usually inducted in their junior or senior years. Members participate in service projects, and provide assistance to fellow students through tutoring and similar activities.

Homebrew Computer Club
Our club is focused on hobbyist electronics and retro-computing with a focus on building and designing with tools accessible to non-professionals and without pecuniary interest. Our skill levels range from the absolute beginner to those designing, testing, and fabricating their own hardware and software. We seek to support each other in our pursuit of electronics by helping each other learn new skills and techniques, tools, etc, providing each other with resources, and by putting our resources together to purchase tools and software for the use of all.

Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers Student Branch
If you are a student majoring in electrical engineering or computer engineering, then IEEE is your professional society. Founded in 1884 as the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, IEEE has today has over 365,000 members in more than 150 countries, including over 60,000 student members.

IEEE keeps its members apprised of the latest technical developments in fields which are rapidly changing, through publication of 128 different specialty magazines (called 'journals'), and over 300 conferences held each year on specialized topics ranging from nanotechnology to wireless communication to advanced computing architectures. Your textbooks and classes provide you with the fundamentals of our field, but if you want to understand the most recent advances in a specific field, you need to read journal publications and attend professional conferences.

If you are a CSEE student and you are not a member, you should seriously considering joining. IEEE makes student membership extraordinarily easy and inexpensive ($30/year). For about half the price of a single textbook, you will have access to a huge amount of information that will help you in your class projects and give you a huge advantage in landing your first job.

The IEEE student chapter hosts speakers to talk about current industry practice and advanced research. They IEEE also sponsors fun opportunities to meet other students from the department, such as picnics or flag football. To get involved in the WVU IEEE Student Branch, contact one of the officers or advisors.

Robotics Club
We are an open student-run organization that is dedicated to bringing students from all majors together to not only build robots but life skills that can be carried to future careers. We have a multitude of positions that range from teaching to graphic design to social media management. Our goal is to bring a diverse group of students together and utilize their personal skills to help each other grow in knowledge and community centered around robotics.

Student Advisory Council
The Lane Department's Student Advisory Council provides input on department policies and operations from a student perspective.

The SAC is made up of students from all of our undergraduate majors and from sophomore through junior years. Some of the members are officers in other student organizations; some are interested primarily in the academic program. All are interested in sharing their insights and talents to make the department a better place.

The SAC meets approximately every other week throughout the nine month academic year, with Wils Cooley, Undergraduate Advising Coordinator Chris Randall and the Associate Department Chair. Students provide feedback and suggestions on courses and labs, on student services, and coordinate student activities. While SAC members take on significant responsibilities, there is also a fun side to membership. The SAC coordinates many department-wide social activities, such as picnics.

Student Society for the Advancement of Biometrics
The Student Society for the Advancement of Biometrics at WVU is the first student organization dedicated to the field of biometrics – acquiring, processing, and and analyzing biological signals.

The Society, formed in the fall semester of 2003, is composed of graduate and undergraduate students from the Lane Department. The organization has received a strong faculty involvement from the department as well. The purposes of this organization are to promote the advancement of biometrics on a student level, to help students in biometrics become involved in the professional world and to enhance the learning environment provided by WVU to outside the classroom. SSAB promotes student research, aids students in networking opportunities and assists students in their transition from academia to the professional world.

Upsilon Phi Epsilon
UPE is the first and only international honor society for the computing sciences. The goals of our student chapter is to help Computer Science students to excel in their classes, to create an awareness about Computer Science among freshmen and of course to make plans for our careers.

Upsilon Pi Epsilon was first organized at Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas, in 1967. The international organization now consists of chapters in various colleges and universities in North America and overseas.

The mission of UPE is to recognize academic excellence at both the undergraduate and graduate levels in the computing sciences.

Women in Cybersecurity
Women in Cybersecurity is a global organization dedicated to the recruitment, retention, and advancement of women in the cybersecurity workforce. Our student chapter is focused on professional development, K-12 outreach, guest speakers, and peer mentoring.

WVU Amateur Radio Club
The WVU Amateur Radio Club promotes the practice of amateur or "ham" radio as a hobby and as a public service. Members of the club are also members of the Amateur Radio Relay League, an international society dedicate to to amateur radio communications.

The skills associated with amateur radio operation closely parallel the skills needed by modern communications engineers. The inventiveness of amateur radio operators has lead to many advances in which are now incorporated in today's cellular and personal communications systems. Many technically oriented students find amateur radio to be a fun hobby, but when natural disasters disrupt other forms of communications, amateur radio operators provide life-saving communications support for emergency service providers.

The WVU Amateur Radio Club operates a radio transmitter on the 11th floor of the Engineering Sciences Building. The club also provides training for those interested in obtaining their amateur radio license.

Statler Student Life
Our College has an active and diverse student body, with dozens of student organizations, honoraries, and professional societies. As a student in our College, you will have many opportunities to interact with your fellow students, faculty, and professionals in your field. The University has intramural sports and a wide range of academic and social organizations for people of all interests. The energy from athletics is unsurpassed. Students in our College find friends, fun and positive, life-changing experiences in and out of the classroom.

Statler College Student Services
The Office of Student Services is dedicated to serving the students of the Benjamin M. Statler College of Engineering and Mineral Resources. Please visit us in Room 340 of the Mineral Resources Building at any time. We will do everything we can to help you succeed and achieve your academic and personal goals.

Click here for Student Services

WVU Career Assistance
WVU Career Services' team of career development specialists are ready to assist with resume reviews, practice interviews or job search coaching. Use the resources available to you and reach out at any time!

WVU Career Services

LCSEE Learning Center
LCSEE Systems
Statler Ambassadors
Statler Student Organizations
Scholarships
Lane Department of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering
1220 Evansdale Drive | PO Box 6109
Morgantown, West Virginia 26506-6109
Phone:  304-293-5263 | Fax:  304-293-8602

Benjamin M. Statler College of Engineering and Mineral Resources
1374 Evansdale Drive | PO Box 6070
Morgantown, West Virginia 26506-6070

Phone:  304.293.4821 |  Email:  statler-info@mail.wvu.edu

 Driving Directions

Connect With Us
Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube
Accreditations
 
Web Standards
 
Privacy Notice
 
Questions or Comments?
© 2025 West Virginia University. Last updated on March 20, 2025.

A-Z Site Index
 
Campus Map
 
WVU Careers
 
WVU Directory
Give
 
Handshake
 
WVU Safety Notification System
 
WVU Today
 
WVU Portal
WVU on Facebook
 
WVU on Twitter
 
WVU on YouTube